Employee Policy Handbook
All Osmosys policies are listed in this handbook.

Introduction
Osmosys policies are guidelines and rules established by the company to safeguard the interests of the company and the employees. These policies serve as a framework to govern various aspects of employment, creating consistency, fairness, and compliance within the workplace. They outline the organization's expectations, procedures, and standards for employees and management. 

 These policies set the tone for the company culture and communicate expectations regarding behavior, performance, and responsibilities of all of us. 

General policy on personal conduct
Osmosys expects its employees to maintain a high standard of conduct and work performance to make sure the business maintains its good reputation with customers and in the market. Good personal conduct contributes to a good and healthy work environment for all. 

 This involves all employees 

 

 observing all policies and procedures 

 treating colleagues with courtesy and respect 

 treating customers and clients in a professional manner at all times 

 working safely at all times 

 maintain good health to fulfil your responsibilities. 

 

 During your term of employment with us, you agree not to engage yourself in the services of either another company or organization without our written permission. This includes direct & indirect employment through freelancing associations or any such sources. 

 You will not engage in any unlawful activities in or outside the office.

Office Timings & Breaks
General Shift at Osmosys works Monday to Friday 9:30 AM to 07:00 PM. All Saturdays, and Sundays are weekly holidays. 

 The weekends and working hours change based on the project requirements. The weekend can be any two consecutive days of the week. The working hours would be 9.5 hours in any shift. 

 It is the policy of our organization to provide Lunch/Dinner break of 30 minutes in any shift. 

 Employees who become ill during the course of the workday should promptly notify their Reporting Manager / Team Lead. It is at the discretion of the Reporting Manager / Team Lead in consultation with the Sick employee on how to handle the situation, keeping HR informed. 

 

 In all such situations, it is the responsibility of the employee and their reporting manager to avert any collateral damage to any Calls/Client Meetings/Deployments.

Password Policy
Purpose 

 The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for creating strong, secure, and confidential passwords to protect the company's information systems and data from unauthorized access. 

 Scope 

 This policy applies to all employees and contractors who have access to the company's information systems and data. 

 Password Creation  

 Passwords must meet the following complexity requirements: 

 

 At least 12 characters in length. 

 Include a combination of uppercase and lowercase letters. 

 Include at least one numerical digit (0-9). 

 Include at least one special character (e.g., !, @, #, $). 

 

 Password Protection 

 Sharing of Passwords 

 Under no circumstances should passwords be shared with others. Each employee is responsible for their own password and account security. 

 Under no circumstances one should ask for someone else's password to temporarily gain access to any resource.  

 Storage of Passwords 

 Passwords must not be stored in an easily accessible format (e.g., on sticky notes, in unencrypted files). Consider using secure password management tools like KeePassXC or OnePass for storing and managing passwords. 

 Phishing Awareness 

 Employees should be vigilant against phishing attempts and should never provide their passwords in response to unsolicited requests, emails, or messages. 

 Reporting Security Incidents 

 Employees must report any suspected or actual security incidents, including unauthorized access or disclosure of passwords, to the IT department immediately.

Dress code
Osmosys expects employees to dress appropriately in business attire while at office. Business attire for men includes Formal Shirts and pants that are typical of business formal attire at work with well-polished leather shoes. For women, business attire includes Pant / Skirt suits or Salwar Kameez or simple Saree appropriate to a formal business environment. 

 Dress code that is deemed inappropriate at workplace will be dealt with on an individual basis. He/She would need to go back home and report back to work dressed in appropriate business attire. 

 Example of inappropriate Dressing and Grooming for Men and Women 

 

 Shirts, T shirts with any kind of messages 

 Torn, soiled or crumpled dress 

 Tight shirts or T-shirts 

 Jeans of any design, shape & size 

 Slippers or sandals 

 Torn / Damaged Shoes 

 Strong and Pungent Deodorants / Perfumes / Oils. 

 

 Employees are expected to demonstrate good judgment and professional taste in dressing. Courtesy to co-workers and project professional image to clients should be the factors to consider choosing the appropriate attire. 

 Dress code points to be noted: 

 

 Monday to Thursday - Formal Dressing  

 All Fridays – Business casuals

Holidays & leave policy
Osmosys has a total of 12 festival & national holidays every year. Considering that India has many festivals of different importance depending on region & religion, all efforts are made to select this list in a manner that benefits staff & organization. The list is made available as soon as possible every year and the employees are advised to keep track of these holidays. 

 All confirmed employees are entitled to 18 days of paid leave in a calendar year. This leave is calculated depending on the date of joining the Organization. Similarly, when an Employee exits the organization, the leaves they are entitled to take shall get apportioned based on their date of resignation. If they have used more leaves than they are entitled to, the remaining leaves shall be considered as Loss of Pay and shall be adjusted in the full and final settlement. 

 Leave is a privilege provided by Osmosys for general welfare of the employee. Leave can be granted ONLY after considering the exigencies of work. The employee has a provision to take leaves for their personal work but is expected to do so with prior permission of their reporting manager. 

 Osmosys encourages its staff to take these leaves in a well-planned manner so they enjoy their vacation while the Projects and the Clients are not impacted negatively.  To this effect, an employee is recommended to spread their leaves across the year. 

 Osmosys encourages all its employees to utilize their leaves so that their work/life is balanced. Therefore, the leaves provided during a year cannot be en-cashed or carried over to the next year. 

 Employees who completed 6 months of service get the following special paid leaves 

 

 a special leave of 5 consecutive working days when they get married once during the tenure at Osmosys 

 A special leave of 5 consecutive working days in case of death in immediate family 

 a special leave of 5 consecutive working days is provided to Men during their child birth, for the first two children. 

 

 For women employees, maternity leave of 26 weeks shall be given at the time of delivery of the baby (for the delivery of their first and second child). A woman with two or more children will get 12 weeks of maternity leave as per the Maternity Benefits (Amendment) Act, 2016.  

 During probation period, following leaves are provided 

 

 Less than 3 years of relevant work experience - no leaves provided during probation period 

 Between 3  - 6 years of relevant work experience - 3 leaves are provided during probation period 

 Above 6 years of relevant work experience - 6 leaves are provided during probation period. 

 

 Any leaves taken beyond the allowed limit as mentioned above will be Loss of Pay and may lead to the extension of the probation period at the discretion of the Manager. 

 All leaves need to be applied in GreytHR Portal marked to the reporting manager with prior notice of a minimum of 3 working days (Excluding Saturdays). 

 In the event of an emergency, Employee may avail leave for a day without prior notice. However, all attempts should be made to inform their manager about the leave in advance or during the day. In case of absence without information for three consecutive days, the Employee will be considered to have abandoned services and the process of termination will be initiated. 

 “No Unplanned Leaves” Period: 

 Sometimes during a year, before or after major festivals or long weekends, quite a few employees take vacation to visit families or travel. During such times the company runs with limited resources attending to the needs of the clients. Under such circumstances, even one more employee taking an unplanned leave affects the project and causes inconvenience to the client. Osmosees are requested to abstain from taking unplanned leaves during this period and if they have to take leave under unavoidable circumstances, it shall be considered “Loss of Pay” leave. This applies even if the employee has leave balance greater than 0. 

 The “Loss of Pay” leave days are not deducted from the leave balance of that employee. 

 “No Unplanned Leaves” period will be intimated to Osmosees well in advance. Planned leaves during this time will be approved by the mentor / management strictly based on the project work, resources available and the employee’s history of taking leaves. Any unplanned leaves (including sick leaves) taken in continuation with a holiday or a planned leave during this period are “Loss of Pay” leaves.

Working on a Holiday / Weekly-off
Compensation Off 

 Employees are encouraged to complete their work during working hours to ensure that their personal life is not affected. However, under unavoidable circumstances or when client demands, employees are needed to work on a holiday or a weekly-off. The compensation for this work is as follows: 

 Work on a Weekly-off: 

 

 Employees and Contractors get a Comp-off leave 

 The Comp-off leave is advised to be taken in the following week, in any case no later than a month from the day worked 

 If not availed, the comp-off leave will lapse after a month w.e.f 1-Jan-2024 

 

 Holiday Compensation: 

 

 

 

 Case 0 

 If a holiday falls on a Friday, and it is not a weekly-off for the employee and they don't work on that day 

 No Compensation 

 

 

 Case 1  

 If a holiday falls on a Friday, and it is not a weekly-off for the employee and they work on that day 

 One day Comp-off + Rs 1,000/- 

 

 

 Case 2 

 If a holiday falls on a Friday, and it is the weekly-off for the employee and they don't work on that day 

 One day Comp-off  

 

 

 Case 3 

 If a holiday falls on a Friday, and it is the weekly-off for the employee and they work on that day 

 2 Days Comp-off + Rs 1,000/-

Jungfrau and/or PineStem
All tasks are assigned to Osmosees through Jungfrau and/or Pinestem. 

 Every Osmosee is advised to complete their tasks and reassign as per the process. 

 All efforts spent on any task shall be properly updated along with detailed comments on the work done. The task must also be assigned the correct status and to the correct person. 

 In case anyone is asked to do a task that is not in the Jungfrau/Pinestem, they shall request their team leader to create and assign a task to log their work hours against that task. 

 It is suggested that the total hours spent must reflect in Jungfrau/Pinestem, either in one task or many tasks. 

 Not updating Jungfrau/Pinestem tasks and the hours spent on various tasks properly will have an impact on the quarterly reviews in accordance with the billing policy Billing | Soochna (osmosys.co)

Billing
An employee irrespective of the Working shift and Weekend needs to put in 9 hours of work on a working day. These hours must be entered in Jungfrau or Pinestem against the tasks he/she has been assigned and worked on that day. It is mandatory for the employee to enter these hours on the same working day. 

 Warning: 

 For any employee, 

 If the Average billing in a week < 8.5 Hours and on any given day during the week, daily billing < 5 Hours, that day shall be marked as Loss of Pay.

Employee Awards & Recognitions
At Osmosys, recognizing high-performing individuals is at the core of our culture. 

 Annual Awards: 

 Our annual award is a form of honor, a kind of appreciation aimed to felicitate one’s excellent and consistent contributions throughout the year. 

 These awards are not only a great prestige or a mark of excellence, but it also a tremendous boost to all of us to strive and excel higher and aim for even more accomplishments. The award categories are: 

 

 Garuda - This is an award given to someone who has delivered beyond their call of duty, gave committed efforts and has a potential & promise to take on higher responsibilities. 

 Pegasus -This is an award given to someone who consistently demonstrated quality of work, commitment, hard work and pro-actively takes responsibilities without hesitation. Someone who shows the promise to take on higher levels of team responsibilities, People who show exemplary technological skill and awareness of their areas of technologies and contribute by suggesting new models is nominated for this award. 

 Unicorn - An award for someone who did exemplary work consistently throughout the year. They would have contributed a lot of their personal time without hesitation, made suggestions, lead a team and took it forward. 

 

 Unicorn is given for Services and Products separately. 

 Quarterly Awards 

 This award is given to an employee who successfully completes a significant task on time and gets good feedback from the client/manager. This award is recommended by the rider and approved by the management. It is a cash prize of Rs 1,500/- 

 Service Recognition 

 We are privileged to recognize our employees on their service anniversaries on their completion of 

 

 4 Years 

 8 Years 

 12 Years 

 16 Years 

 20 Years 

 24 Years

Employee designations list
Promotions:

Remote Working Process
1. Introduction 

 This policy provides general guidelines on remote working procedures for employees and contractors at Osmosys. 

 2. Remote Working 

 When the pandemic stuck us in 2020, we started Work-From-Home (WFH). As the pandemic is behind us now, we are moving back to the office following a Hybrid model. WFH and Work from office are set at an individual level based on many factors like the work performance, their place of stay and the Project/Company needs. Osmosees are encouraged to work from office to build Team spirit, Leadership skills and inter-personal relationships. 

 2.1. Pre-requisites 

 All employees and contractors of Osmosys working remotely must have the following pre-requisites: 

 

 Availability 

 

 Availability over email, phone, chat and in constant communication with Leads/Managers as and when required. 

 

 

 All required devices ( Laptop/ Desktop) in good working conditions

 

 Official equipment – mobile phones for testing, MAC systems etc. 

 Personal equipment – laptops/desktops 

 Availability of communication equipment (like headphones etc.) 

 

 

 Un-interrupted power  supply at  place of working (hostels, homes in the cities/native places etc.)

 

 Availability of power backup equipment like invertors etc. in case of power failures 

 

 

 High-speed internet connectivity

 

 Availability of other modes of connections to internet (like data cards, mobile hotspots etc.) 

 

 

 Designated workspace 

 

 Availability of good workspace that is quiet and noise-free 

 

 

 

 Resources may have to provide proof for the above and must be able to submit photos and/or supporting documents to their leads/managers and Osmosys management upon request. 

 2.2. Rules of Engagement 

 Following are the applicable rules for remote working: 

 

 Leaves and absence from work 

 

 

 All leaves or absences must be intimated one day in advance and approval taken from your leads / managers. 

 Same day requests for working from home will not be approved, except in exceptional cases and subject to Team Leaders & HR approvals. 

 

 In case of sudden illness or some other unavoidable situations that does not allow resources to even work from home, the respective leads/managers need to be informed and leave should be applied. 

 Planned leaves for longer period need to be applied well in advance and must adhere to our Holiday & Leave Policy   

 

 Loss of productive hours due to sickness, power cuts, internet issues, equipment issues etc. 

 

 

 Less than 4 hours, the expectation is that resources will catch-up the deliverables/assigned work by putting extra hours in the same day until work finishes (subject to agreement between resources and their Leads/Managers) 

 More than 4 hours, the day will be marked as “leave” for the resources (subject to agreement between resources and their Leads/Managers) 

 

 

 For resources working from home within Hyderabad 

 

 

 If there are issues like power cuts, internet outage for more than 1-2 hours, they need to inform their Leads/Managers and are expected to come to office to continue the work 

 

 

 For resources working remotely and outside of Hyderabad 

 

 

 If they are not able to give productive work hours consistently for 2-3 days, they need to inform their Leads/Managers and are expected to immediately report to office in Hyderabad and continue to work from office. 

 

 3. Reporting Issues 

 Osmosys employees and contractors that are working remotely will need to report all issues like power cuts, internet failures, equipment issues via IncidentReporter365 mobile app. 

 Resources working remotely are advised to contact Osmosys management and HR for all questions, queries and clarifications regarding this policy.

Working from Hyderabad office (HQ)
Objective: This policy aims to promote team collaboration, enhance communication and build a strong organizational culture by requiring employees and contractors of Osmosys to work from our Hyderabad office (HQ) for at least one month per calendar year. 

 Applicability: This policy applies to all full-time employees and contractors of Osmosys, excluding those with roles that require constant travel or have specific job responsibilities that make regular office attendance impractical. 

 Guidelines: 

 1. 

 Minimum Attendance Requirement: 

 · 

 All employees and Contractors are required to spend a minimum of one month per calendar year physically present at the Osmosys Hyderabad office (HQ) 

 2. 

 Scheduling: 

 · 

 Team Leaders and Managers will schedule and create a roaster for their respective project teams to be in Hyderabad office 

 · 

 The timing and scheduling for each team will be done taking into consideration project complexities, delivery deadlines, team meetings and other relevant factors 

 3. 

 Remote work: 

 · 

 The company will continue to encourage hybrid and remote work arrangements for the majority of the year, and employees and contractors are expected to maintain regular communication and productivity while working remotely 

 4. 

 Travel Expenses & Accommodation: 

 · 

 Since all employees and contractors job offers are from Osmosys Hyderabad office, the company will NOT reimburse any travel, accommodation and local transportation for the HQ office attendance. 

 5. 

 Flexibility: 

 · 

 The company acknowledges that individual circumstances may vary, and exceptions to this policy may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Employees and contractors can discuss their specific situations with their leads, managers and the HR 

 Benefits: HQ office attendance is an ideal opportunity for employees and contractors to collaborate with team members, engage in face-to-face discussions, improve productivity, team building and help strengthen the organizational culture. 

 Other benefits include: 

 · 

 Team Lunches and Dinners 

 · 

 Internal Trainings and Workshops 

 · 

 Open house with management team 

 · 

 CSR activities 

 · 

 Goodie bags and gifts 

   

 Compliance: All Employees and Contractors are expected to comply with this policy. Failure to meet minimum attendance requirement without prior approval may result in disciplinary action leading to termination.  

 Review and Modification: This policy will be reviewed annually and may be modified as needed to align with the evolving needs of the organization. 

 Effective Date: This policy is effective from 1 st January 2024

Internet usage at Office
The Internet is provided by Osmosys for business use at office. 

 Limited private use is permitted if the private use does not interfere with a person’s work and that inappropriate sites are not accessed e.g. pornographic, gambling, gaming, movies. Management has the right to access the system to check if private use is excessive or inappropriate. 

 Failure to comply with these instructions is an offense and will be subject to appropriate investigation. In serious cases, the penalty for an offense, or repetition of an offense, may include termination of employment.

Email Usage and Other Messaging Platforms
Email id and messaging platform ids provided by Osmosys are for official business purpose only. 

 Taking care of these is the responsibility of the employee to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive information. To safeguard these ids, you are advised to follow strong passwords and change them periodically. 

 Points to be noted: 

 

 All Emails shall have complete signature with name, title, Osmosys logo with a link to Osmosys website, and social media handles. 

 Non-essential emails, including advertising messages, should be deleted regularly from the ‘Sent Items’, ‘Inbox’ and ‘Deleted Items’ folders to avoid congestion. 

 You shall not use any other email addresses for official purposes or access personal email during work hours.  

 

 To protect Osmosys from the potential effects of the misuse and abuse of these accounts, the following instructions are to be followed: 

 

 No material can be shared that is defamatory, in breach of copyright or business confidentiality, or prejudicial to the good standing of Osmosys in the community or to its relationship with staff, customers, clients and any other person or business with whom it has a relationship 

 Any correspondence must not contain material that amounts to gossip about colleagues or that could be offensive, demeaning, persistently irritating, threatening, and discriminatory, involves the harassment of others or concerns personal relationships 

 The accounts of other persons are not to be accessed except by management (or persons authorized by management) ensuring compliance with this policy, or by authorized staff who have been requested to attend to a fault, upgrade or similar situation. Access in each case will be limited to the minimum needed for the task. 

 When using these accounts, a person must not pretend to be another person or use another person’s computer without permission. 

 Excessive private use, including mass messaging, “reply to all” etc. that are not part of the person’s duties, is not permitted. 

 Failure to comply with these instructions is a security offense and will be investigated. In serious cases, the penalty for breach of policy, or repetition of an offense, may include termination of employment. 

 

 In case you receive emails or any communication from your peers / superiors / clients, asking for personal favors or information please go through the following points carefully. 

 

 

 Spam/Phishing: Always verify the sender’s email/account id properly (click on the sender’s name and their id can be seen) 

 Even if the sender’s email/account id is correct or known, do not share any info without checking the authenticity of the sender 

 Do not provide any bank/UPI links or info to anyone on your email id’s, WhatsApp conversations etc., unless you are sure of the sender/receiver 

 In case of the above or if in doubt, please bring it to the attention of the HR/Management immediately before responding.

Telephone / Mobile use
It is understood that mobile communication is an integral part of keeping in touch with family, friends and others. The technological advances have taken a mobile phone much ahead of just a communication instrument. The unending possibilities & capabilities of various mobile phones make it imminent for an organization to put certain restrictions in the interest of organization. 

 

 All private phone calls shall be strictly avoided during work hours 

 The mobile phone shall not be used for any social networking, accessing private emails, running Apps or chatting during work hours 

 The mobile phone shall not be used as memory storage to carry any official material 

 Photographing any official material that is related to a client or a project, that may be confidential or otherwise is strictly prohibited 

 Failure to comply with these instructions is a security breach offense and will be investigated. In serious cases, the penalty for breach of policy, or repetition of an offense, may include termination of employment.

Social Media Policy
Osmosys expects its employees to maintain a certain standard of behavior when using social media for work or personal purposes. The Code of Conduct applies to Osmosees when participating in social media for official and private use. 

 

 Any confidential information related to Osmosys or its present or past clients cannot be shared either in official or private use. The potential scope and ramifications of a breach of privacy or confidentiality when using social media are severe 

 Where staff are authorized to use social media relating to the administration of policies and programs of the elected government, they should avoid making statements or engaging in activities of a political nature. 

 When using social media for official purposes it should not be used to express personal opinions. 

 When using social media for private purposes, staff must ensure that they make it clear that any comments relating to Osmosys activities are not official, and that they are speaking only on behalf of themselves. 

 Use of social media for making public comment in relation to duties must follow the appropriate internal communications process and authorization. When using social media for official purposes it should not be used to express personal opinions. 

 Religious / Sexist / Casteist / Regional based comments / discussions / debates are strictly not allowed. 

 

 This policy applies to all employees of Osmosys who: 

 

 maintaining a profile page for Osmosys on any social or business networking site (including, but not limited to LinkedIn, Facebook, MySpace, or Twitter); 

 making comments on such networking sites for and on behalf of Osmosys 

 writing or contributing to a blog and/or commenting on other people’s or business’ blog posts for and on behalf of Osmosys and/or 

 posting comments for and on behalf of Osmosys on any public and/or private web-based forums or message boards or other internet sites.

Alcohol & drugs policy
Osmosys is concerned by factors affecting an employee’s ability to safely and effectively do their work to a satisfactory standard. The business recognizes that alcohol or other drug abuse can impair short-term or long-term work performance and is an occupational health and safety risk. 

 Osmosys will do its utmost to create and maintain a safe, healthy and productive workplace for all employees. Osmosys has a zero tolerance policy in regards to the use of illicit drugs. 

 Contravening either of these points may lead to instant dismissal. 

 Osmosys does not tolerate attending work under the influence of alcohol. This may result in disciplinary action or dismissal.

Employee Grievances
Osmosys provides equal opportunity for employment to all individuals irrespective of the race, color, caste, creed, religion, sex, gender, age, disability, or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws. All policies are rooted in the principles of fairness, non-discrimination, and inclusivity. 

 a. Employee grievance cell 

 At Osmosys, all employees have an equal right to work in a healthy, professional and fair environment. Anything violating this environment shall be strongly dealt with. The Employee grievance cell attends to any of the grievances an employee has which are not technical in nature. The complaint can come verbally and the grievance cell shall put it in written form and take the employee’s signature. Any complaint must be resolved in a time period of 3-5 working days. 

 What can be complained to the committee? 

 

 Any kind of harassment faced by any employee from a superior or peer 

 Any kind of discrimination that is against equal opportunity employment 

 Similarly the cell is also responsible to look into any complaint coming from outside the office against an employee. 

 

 Committee members 

 

 Srinivas M 

 Dinesh Madireddy 

 Madhavi Kolagani 

 

 b. Internal Committee (Women’s Grievance Redressal)  

 Internal Commitee for Women’s Grievance Redressal was formed at Osm osys on 8th March 2016. The women's group at Osmosys is called Oorja. 

 The committee’s responsibility will be to ensure that all female employees get to work in a healthy, fair and professional environment. Any complaints raised by the women Osmosees relating to the violation of this will be addressed by this committee. 

 The committee currently has three internal members and one external member and meets all the women employees once a quarter (Oorja Meetings) to discuss the working environment and encourage them to come forward with complaints if they have any. 

 The committee can also meet on a need basis, at least two out of the four committee members must be present for such meetings. 

 If a female employee faces any kind of harassment outside the office, the committee will provide the required support in handling of the issue. 

 IC Team Members 

 

 Madhavi Kolagani 

 Chandana Koppula 

 Sindhusha Balla 

 Ritu Rai (Vice President, Happy Smiles Foundation,  Regd. No: 225/2015 ) 

 

 c. Sexual Harassment 

 Sexual harassment occurs when one employee makes continued, unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, to another employee, against his or her wishes. 

 Examples of sexual harassment, not intended to be all inclusive. 

 

 Unwanted jokes, gestures, offensive words on clothing, and unwelcome comments. 

 Touching and any other bodily contact such as scratching or patting a coworker's back, grabbing an employee around the waist, or interfering with an employee's ability to move. 

 Repeated requests for dates that are turned down or unwanted flirting. 

 Transmitting or posting emails or pictures of a sexual or other harassment related nature. 

 Displaying sexually suggestive objects, pictures, or posters. 

 Playing sexually suggestive music. 

 Any employee experiencing difficulties due to actions of their colleagues are requested to immediately bring this to the notice of senior management and seek advice & supportive action. 

 

 Sexual harassment towards an employee will be dealt very seriously and the employee will be terminated without any notice and handed over to the Law for legal action. Any such harassment faced by any woman / transgender employee can be reported to IC team and an appropriate disciplinary action shall be taken. 

 Male employees can report such cases to the Employee Grievance cell. 

 Read about the policies & procedures Osmosys has adopted for Sexual Harassment at Workplace from the below link: 

 https://soochna.osmosys.co/books/osm-processes/chapter/sexual-harassment-of-women-at-workplace-policy

Conflict of interest
Conflict of interest arises whenever the personal, professional or business interests of an employee are potentially at odds with the best interests of Osmosys. 

 Employees should aim to avoid being put in a situation where there may be a conflict between the interests of Osmosys and their own personal or professional interests, or those of relatives or friends. Where such a conflict occurs (or is perceived to occur), the interests of Osmosys will be balanced against the interests of the employee and, unless exceptional circumstances exist, resolved in favor of Osmosys. It is impossible to define all potential areas of conflict of interest. If an employee is in doubt if a conflict exists, they should raise the matter with their manager / HR. 

 Employees must: 

 

 declare any potential, actual or perceived conflicts of interest that exist on becoming employed by Osmosys to management 

 declare any potential, actual or perceived conflicts of interest that arise or are likely to arise during employment by Osmosys to management 

 avoid being placed in a situation where there is potential, actual or perceived conflict of interest if at all possible 

 No outside projects or part time employment or freelancing with anyone else while in the service of Osmosys. 

 

 If an employee declares such an interest, Osmosys will review the potential areas of conflict with the employee and mutually agree on practical arrangements to resolve the situation. 

 Employees must disclose any involvement with other organizations / institutes in any capacity that might cause a conflict of interest with Osmosys to their manager/HR. Where there are external involvements that do not represent a conflict of interest, these must not affect performance or attendance whilst working at Osmosys. If such involvement does affect performance or attendance it will be considered a conflict of interest. 

 Employees must not set up or engage in private business or undertake other employment in direct or indirect competition with Osmosys using knowledge and/or materials gained during the course of employment with Osmosys. 

 Engaging in other business interests during work hours will result in termination of employment with immediate effect and without any discussion. 

 Failure to declare a potential, actual or perceived conflict of interest or to take remedial action agreed with Osmosys, in a timely manner, may result in performance improvement proceedings including termination of employment.

Intellectual property and security
All intellectual property including all programs written, documents created and any other work executed by employees during their employment with Osmosys, including discoveries or inventions made in the performance of their duties related in any way to the business of Osmosys, will remain the property of Osmosys. 

 Employees may be given access to confidential information, access to servers, data, business property, keys to premises or any other business related property/information in the performance of their duties. This must be protected and used only in the interests of Osmosys. Uploading or sharing of any code, data or any kind of information on or through any electronic / internet platforms is not acceptable. 

 Employees must not: 

 

 disclose or use any part of any confidential information outside of the performance of their duties and in the interests of Osmosys; or 

 Authorize or be involved in the improper use or disclosure of confidential information during or after their employment without the Employer's written consent, other than as required by law. 

 Include the client code / documents / credentials / servers details in any of the repositories accessible by any one excluding the corresponding client and the project team. This includes Github and other such softwares. Osmosys reserves the right to check any employee’s personal / public repositories to ensure that the confidential code / documents are not included. 

 

 ‘Confidential information’ includes any information in any form relating to Osmosys and related bodies, clients or businesses, which is not in the public domain. Employees must act in good faith towards Osmosys and must prevent (or if impractical, report) the unauthorized disclosure of any confidential information. Failure to comply with this policy may result in performance improvement proceedings including termination of employment, and Osmosys may also pursue monetary damages or other remedies allowed by law.

Coding Standards
In an effort to improve the overall quality of service provided by Osmosys to its client, certain standards and guidelines are published from time to time. All such standards and guidelines are made available to the staff for their exclusive reading & understanding. Following the standards is crucial to a project and to ensure this: 

 

 Its mandatory to take standards exams if you are working in a particular technology 

 Every month there will be standards exam. 

 If in case you happened to be on leave on the day of the exam or could not take the exam due to a client call or inevitable happening, you can submit the same justification to HR & LND team so as to avoid getting negative points. (Once Training Pegasus final version is incorporated for the standards exams, then you can take the exam any time convenient to you but on the stipulated date or on the immediate working date) 

 Having coding standards knowledge & passing the exam is essential to the programming job; Hence, no positive points are assigned for passing the standards exam. 

 For every failure, 2 points will be deducted from PDR points. 

 Re-attempt is every week. 

 If an Osmosee passes the exam every month in the first attempt for 3 months, then they will have only one exam in the next quarter. If they fail in the quarterly exam, they will have to attempt the exams in every month of the quarter and pass.  

 Points deduction happens from the Project Delivery category in the PDR. The deduction is capped at 10 points irrespective of how many times they fail. 

 It’s strongly advised that this learning is applied sincerely to your programming work to ensure the quality of work.  So, once you pass the exam, it's expected that your coding does not exhibit poor standards. 

 

 It is to be noted that the Coding Standards documents are confidential, and staff shall ensure the same is not distributed to anyone other than current Osmosys staff.

Employee Separation
At the time of leaving the company, an employee is expected to leave causing minimum impact on the clients. In view of this, an employee is requested to give a notice of three months. An employee can be released earlier or can also be asked to stay longer in the interest of the organization.  

 Employee is not entitled to take leave during the notice period. If an employee has to take leave for some unavoidable conditions, the company can extend  their last working day by the number of leaves taken during notice period. The leaves taken during notice period will be Loss of Pay. 

 A Knowledge transfer must be initiated when an employee is leaving the company. HR / team leader will initiate this process. The separating employee must provide all necessary knowledge transfer and co-operate in a smooth handover.  

 Separating employee shall not provide their colleague or team leaders contact for employment verification.  All such employment verification mails from next employer or any third party company must be addressed to verifications@osmosys.co only. Verification mails sent to any team lead or managers will not be responded.

Suspension Policy
An employee might be put under Suspension as a consequence to a disciplinary action initiated against them. Some of the situations include police FIR, internal disciplinary actions. 

 The clauses covered under the Suspension are: 

 

 The duration of Suspension varies based on the gravity of the offense, as decided by the management 

 The entire duration is considered Loss of Pay for the Employee 

 Access to official email and Servers shall be revoked during this period 

 No Client interaction is permitted during this period 

 The employee cannot undertake employment with any other organization or Freelancing/Consultancy during this period 

 The agreement period gets extended by this duration (non-working time). 

 The suspension might lead to termination based on the seriousness of the offense and/or if the employee doesn’t show the expected improvement in his/her work. 

 

 Suspension revoking 

 Any suspension is revoked on the completion of the suspension period or on the conclusion of an investigation. 

Variable Pay
For building a successful and productive work model at Osmosys, the employees are encouraged to lead their juniors and thus constantly move up in the hierarchy. 

 Towards achieving this, the company pays "Variable Pay" as a component of the Monthly compensation, for the team management by a Manager/Team Lead/Sub-Lead. 

 We recognize up to two levels of management for the compensation to be paid. Here are a few points considered for calculating the Monthly Variable Pay. 

 

 For every 180 Hours put in by an employee (below the level of Team Leaders/Principal Engineers), their immediate Manager gets a compensation of Rs 560/- and the next level manager gets a compensation of Rs 140/- 

 In case an employee has only one manager above him/her, the manager gets paid Rs 560/- 

 The Variable Pay is calculated based on actual hours (billable + non-billable) from the Billing report generated from Pinestem & Jungfrau. 

 In case an employee works under two or more managers in a month, the variable pay is split among the managers based on the actual hours billed under their projects. 

 

 Ex: A Sub-Lead with 3 people working full-time (180 Hours) under him/her will get paid Rs 560 * 3 = Rs 1,680/- as the Variable Pay. Their Manager/Team Leader is paid Rs 140 * 3 = Rs 420/- for managing the three employees. When the sub-lead puts in 180 hours of work, their Manager/Team Leader gets additional pay of Rs 560/- for managing the sub-lead. 

 As the Variable pay can be calculated only after the calendar month ends, the variable pay for a month is paid as a part of the succeeding month salary. Ex: Variable Pay for April 2023 Efforts gets paid with the May 2023 Salary on 1-Jun-2023.

PDR Policy
PDR (Performance Development Review) is done quarterly for all employees at Osmosys to evaluate their performance; help them improve their performance and set goals for the next quarter. The PDR process is automated in the Osmosys SharePoint. 

 

 The PDR for a quarter will start by 25th of the Quarter ending month and needs to be completed before 10th of the new quarter beginning month. Ex: PDR for Jan – Mar 2023, needs to be completed by 10-Apr-2023. 

 The PDRs are initiated and scheduled by the HR Department in consultation with the Reporting Manager. 

 PDR is done by the Reporting Manager. 

 Each time an employee fails in the Coding Standards exam, 2 points will be deducted from Project Delivery category of the PDR. 

 Each time an employee gets an escalation to HR from the Team Leader, 5 points will be deducted from PDR. 

 The PDR is not skipped for any reason including the previous quarter score. 

 The hike cycle is related to the PDR Score as given below: 

 

 

 

 If an employee gets a PDR Score of 1 in a quarter, he/she shall be asked to report at office and will be put in PIP (Performance Improvement Plan) immediately. Any employee is given up to 2 weeks' notice to report at office.

 

 If the Salary revision/Confirmation is due in the next quarter, it gets delayed by a quarter. 

 Ex: A Confirmed Employee gets 1 in the quarter Jan – Mar 2023 and the Salary revision is due on 1-Apr-2023, it gets postponed to 1-Jul-2023. 

 If a trainee gets a 1 in the quarter Jan – Mar 2023 and his/her confirmation is due on 1-Apr/1-May/1-Jun-2023, his/her probation is extended by 3 months. 

 

 

 Another score of 1 in the consecutive quarter following a ‘1’ in the previous quarter will lead to immediate termination. The Company reserves the right to report this in the Relieving Documents and Ex-Employee Verifications. 

 All the previous PDR Scores (1 to 5) get reset upon a Salary Revision and the Annual Cycle restarts. 

 

 PDR Scoring is revised w.e.f 1-Oct-2023 as follows. It is applicable for the PDRs starting with Oct - Dec2023.

WFH Developer Laptop/Desktop Configuration Policy
Effective Date: 01/08/2023 

 At Osmosys Software Solutions, we value the flexibility and productivity that remote work offers. As part of our commitment to providing a conducive work environment for our employees, we offer the option of Work from Home (WFH) for our software developers. This policy outlines the minimum laptop/desktop configuration required for WFH, ensuring smooth project execution and efficient communication. 

 1. CPU (Central Processing Unit): The laptop/desktop should have a CPU with a benchmark score above 10,000 from the list of high-end CPUs available at https://www.cpubenchmark.net/high_end_cpus.html . This ensures optimal performance and handling of resource-intensive tasks. 

 2. RAM (Random Access Memory): The minimum required RAM is 12GB, while we recommend having 16GB for improved multitasking capabilities and enhanced performance. 

 3. Storage: A minimum of 250GB Solid State Drive (SSD) is mandatory for official purposes, excluding personal storage. SSDs provide faster data access and contribute to smoother software development processes. 

 4. Display Resolution: The laptop/desktop display should have a resolution of at least 1920 x 1080 (Full HD) to ensure a clear and detailed working experience. 

 5. Internet Speed: A reliable broadband connection with a minimum speed of 30 Mbps is required for seamless connectivity and efficient remote collaboration. Additionally, developers must have a backup 4G connection to use in case of broadband outage. 

 6. Camera and Headset: To facilitate effective communication and participation in video calls and virtual meetings, a functional camera and a good quality headset are mandatory. 

 7. Power Backup: All WFH developers must have a reliable power backup solution, such as a UPS, to ensure uninterrupted work during power outages. The power backup should be capable of sustaining the laptop/desktop and internet modem/router for at least 4 hours. 

 Candidate Compliance: 

 

 Candidates applying for software development positions at Osmosys Software Solutions must submit the specifications of their laptop/desktop to the HR team before the commencement of remote work. 

 The submitted laptop/desktop specifications must meet or exceed the minimum requirements specified in this policy. 

 As per company policy changes or advancements in technology, developers are expected to upgrade their laptops/desktops to comply with the latest standards. 

 

 Policy Review: 

 This policy will be reviewed periodically to ensure that it aligns with the evolving needs of our workforce and technological advancements. 

 Conclusion: 

 Osmosys Software Solutions strives to provide its employees with the necessary tools and resources to excel in their roles, whether working from the office or remotely. By adhering to this policy, our developers can maintain high levels of productivity, efficiency, and collaboration while contributing to the success of our projects and the growth of the organization. 

 This policy is effective from the date mentioned above and applies to all software developers working under the Work from Home option at Osmosys Software Solutions. 

 Note: The information provided in this policy is subject to change based on the company's requirements and advancements in technology. Employees will be informed of any updates to the policy as and when they occur.

Escalation to HR on employee
The Reporting Managers & Team Leads shall share any issues they are facing with a team member that needs escalation to the HR through a mail to the concerned team member with CC to  hr@osmosys.co . 

 This feedback shall be recorded by the HR in a centralized location which would be accessible to all the riders.  Such escalations will an impact on the employee PDR as mentioned in the PDR policy. 

 The format for the escalation mail would be : 

 Subject : Escalation to HR - <Employee Name> 

 Mail content would have: 

 Category :  Improper Billing / Task incomplete / Poor reporting / Unavailability/ Client escalation / Revenue Loss 

 Current Issue :  “Write 2 sentences on what is the issue.. If it is a task incompletion or slowness, mention which tasks.. if billing issues , mention that clearly… “ 

 Immediate Remedy :  “What is expected from the candidate as immediate remedy for that mistake” - this may not be possible at all times.. So if it is a mistake without an immediate remedy - mention that - this action is irredeemable 

 Suggested HR Action : Escalating this to HR to be listed in PDR /  Escalating to HR to take appropriate action / Come to office and work within a week time / Escalating to HR to proceed with separation 

 Next monitoring :  Mention Monitoring period and what is expected.

Open (Free) Hand Team Policy (Osmosys Lounge)
Objective:   Osmosys tries to engage all the trainees, contractors and full-time employees in projects in the interest for the organization and the individuals; and also supports continuous learning of new technologies among Osmosees in the best possible way. 

 Applicability:  This policy applies to all full-time employees and ASE Trainees. 

 Process: 

 

 When an employee is “Capable” but currently not required in a project - the TL will send an email to HR recommending this employee into the “Open Hands Team ”. This mail shall be copied to the Resource.   

 If an employee is “ Incapable ” and currently not able to be used, then the TL will send an email to HR recommending “PIP Required ”. Preceding this, there should be two escalation mails - once a week.   

 HR must maintain this list of these Open Hands and offer them immediately to all project managers; Usage on any of the projects on certain tasks will still be considered as in the OHT (Open Hands Team).   

 Only when a Project leader wants this resource as full time in a project and asks HR - then that resource is sent to that project through an email copying to that individual.   

 HR publishes this list to all riders every Monday morning. 

 If an individual is capable but still cannot be used in any project at a moment, they will be full time learning on the competency given in the PDR. 

 If any employee in OHT cannot be used in any projects by company, the company can ask them to leave after 2 months - giving the last month as notice. 

 

 Employee Responsibilities: 

 Employees are expected to: 

 

 Achieve the competency goal in the scheduled time. 

 Make all efforts to get into a project. 

 

 Policy Compliance: 

 Compliance with this policy is mandatory for all employees. Violation of the policy may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. 

 Review and Modification:  This policy will be reviewed and updated periodically to reflect changes in health care practices, regulatory requirements, and organizational needs. Feedback from employees will be considered during the review process. 

 Effective Date: This policy is effective from 1st November 2023.

Osmosys Health and Wellness Policy
Objective: Osmosys is committed to fostering a safe and healthy work environment for all employees. We recognize that good health is essential for individual well-being, job performance, and overall organizational success. This policy outlines our program for promoting employee health and early identification of potential health issues. 

   This policy aims to: 

 

   Encourage and support employees in maintaining good health. 

 Identify potential health risks and concerns early through periodic health checks. 

 Facilitate early intervention and management of health issues. 

   Promote a culture of health awareness and preventative care. 

 

 Applicability: This policy applies to all full-time employees and contractors of Osmosys 

 Health Check Program: 

 

 Osmosys has partnered with Apollo Clinics, a reputed diagnostic center, to provide free health check-ups for all employees periodically. 

 The timing and frequency of check-ups will be determined by the organization based on various factors, including employee demographics, risk assessments, and resource availability. 

 Check-ups will be scheduled at diagnostic centers conveniently located near employee residences, taking into account remote work arrangements. 

 The scope of check-ups includes general health assessment and drug tests based on organizational risk assessments.  This DOES NOT include vaccinations and other tests for covid/dengue etc. that are required when people are unwell from time to time.  

 Random drug tests may be conducted at the office in Hyderabad without prior notification. Cooperation with such tests is mandatory for all employees. 

 

 Confidentiality and Data Privacy: 

 

 All personal health information obtained through the program will be treated with the strictest confidentiality. 

 Results will be shared only with the management and healthcare professionals on a "need-to-know" basis. 

 Employees will have access to their test results upon request. 

 Osmosys will comply with all applicable data privacy laws and regulations. 

 

 Employee Responsibilities: 

 Employees are expected to: 

 

 Participate in scheduled health check-ups and drug tests. 

 Cooperate with any drug tests conducted at the office. 

 Inform the company about any personal health conditions that may affect their work performance or safety. 

 Maintain a healthy lifestyle and engage in preventative healthcare practices. 

 

 Policy Compliance: 

 Compliance with this policy is mandatory for all employees. Violation of the policy may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. 

 Review and Modification: This policy will be reviewed and updated periodically to reflect changes in health care practices, regulatory requirements, and organizational needs. Feedback from employees will be considered during the review process. 

 Effective Date: This policy is effective from 18 th January 2024.

Technology policy
Introduction 

 This Technical Policy Document outlines the critical components, documents, and processes integral to the functioning and governance of our technological infrastructure. Aimed at establishing a robust framework, it ensures operational efficiency, security compliance, and the facilitation of seamless collaboration across various technical teams. By delineating clear guidelines and standards, this document serves as a foundational pillar supporting the organization's technological endeavors and strategic objectives. 

 Audience 

 This policy is applicable exclusively to all technical staff, including but not limited to developers, engineers, project managers, and IT support personnel within the organization. It is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of the organization's technology stack, documentation standards, and procedural guidelines. This policy does not extend to members of the sales and HR teams, as their functions necessitate a different set of guidelines and protocols. 

 Division of Policies 

 Our Technical Policy Document is structured into three key categories, each designed to streamline our operations and enhance the efficiency and knowledge base of our technical teams. Understanding these categories will enable employees to navigate through our technological ecosystem effectively and contribute to our collective goals proficiently. 

 Documents : This category encompasses all essential documentation that employees are required to be familiar with. It includes but is not limited to technical specifications, coding standards and other common documents. These documents are vital for maintaining consistency, quality, and compliance with industry standards across all projects. 

 Components : Under this section, we highlight reusable components that are integral to our development practices. These components may range from software libraries, frameworks, to custom utilities developed in-house. Familiarity with these components is crucial for ensuring rapid development, code reuse, and maintaining a high level of code quality across various projects. 

 Processes : This part outlines the various processes that govern our project lifecycle, including development workflows, code review procedures, deployment strategies, and incident response protocols. Understanding these processes is essential for seamless project execution, collaboration, and maintaining operational excellence within the team. 

 Documents 

 Coding Standards 

 About 

 At Osmosys Software Solutions, we maintain a comprehensive list of technology standards that guide our development practices. It is imperative for all developers to familiarize themselves with the standards relevant to their specific technology domains. Adherence to these standards is crucial for maintaining consistency and quality across our projects. 

 To ensure ongoing compliance and proficiency, we will conduct standard examinations monthly, tailored to each technology domain. As developers expand their expertise or transition to new technologies, they are required to review the respective standards and successfully complete the corresponding exams. 

 Our technology standards are dynamic and will be periodically updated to reflect the latest best practices and include emerging technologies. Developers are expected to stay informed about these updates and any new technologies introduced, ensuring their skills and knowledge remain current. 

 It is essential for employees to be aware of and understand all technology standards applicable to their work at Osmosys Software Solutions, as these form the foundation of our commitment to excellence in software development. 

 Repository : https://github.com/OsmosysSoftware/dev-standards 

 

 

 

 Technology 

 Owner 

 

 

 

 UI Guidelines 

 

 Vishnu Kyatannawar 

 

 

 

 Angular 

 

 Raj Kumar 

 

 

 

 CSS 

 

 Vishnu Kyatannawar 

 

 

 

 Flutter 

 

 Anand Prakash 

 

 

 

 HTML 

 

 Vishnu Kyatannawar 

 

 

 

 Log Format 

 

 Sindhusha Balla 

 

 

 

 PHP 

 

 Sai Manohar 

 

 

 

 GIT 

 

 Vishnu Kyatannawar 

 

 

 

 Dotnet 

 

 Sameer Shaik 

 

 

 

 Database 

 

 Sindhusha Balla 

 

 

 

 Intended audience 

 All employees engaged with any of the technologies listed must ensure they are well-informed about the applicable standards. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Vishnu Kyatannawar or Sameer Shaik . 

 CI Setup 

 About 

 Continuous Integration (CI) setups are crucial for automating build, testing, and deployment processes. In this section, you'll find instructions for configuring CI pipelines using various technologies to improve code quality and streamline project development. 

 Repository : https://github.com/OsmosysSoftware/dev-standards 

 Languages Covered 

 We provide guides for a variety of languages using different CI technologies and tools, including: 

 

 Angular

 

 with GitHub 

 with GitLab 

 

 

 PHP

 

 with GitHub 

 with GitLab 

 

 

 .NET

 

 with GitHub 

 with GitLab 

 

 

 

 Intended audience 

 All employees engaged with any of the technologies listed must ensure they are well-informed about the CI setups listed above. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Vishnu Kyatannawar or Sameer Shaik . 

 Project Initiation Checklist 

 About 

 As we embark on our upcoming & ongoing project, it is essential to ensure a streamlined and organized approach to achieve success. To facilitate this, we have introduced a comprehensive Project Management Checklist that will guide us through each stage, ensuring discipline and maintaining quality standards with measurable outcomes. 

 Here is a high-level overview of the key areas covered in the checklist: 

 

 Project Definition & Planning 

 Stakeholder Management & Communication 

 Requirements & Documentation 

 Team & Kickoff 

 Development & Quality Assurance 

 Change Management & Deliverables 

 Additional Considerations 

 Project Closure & Learning 

 Deployment 

 

 By adhering to this checklist, we aim to establish a disciplined approach, ensuring high-quality standards at every stage of our project. Let's collectively commit to its implementation for a successful and efficient project delivery. 

 Template : OSM-PID-Checklist-Template-V1.0.xlsx 

 Intended audience 

 The Project Initiation Checklist template is primarily managed by the project managers, often it will be either riders or shotguns. However, it is imperative for all employees to familiarize themselves with this template. Should an employee embark on a new project without the guidance of a rider or shotgun, they are responsible for generating and adhering to this checklist for their project. It is essential that not only the project manager but every team member involved in a project is well-acquainted with the checklist to ensure a standardized approach to project initiation. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Samuel Sandegren or Vishnu Kyatannawar . 

 MOM Template 

 About 

 Our organization utilizes a specific Excel template for documenting the Minutes of the Meeting (MOM) for each project. This document is essential for capturing discussion points, action items, and reviewing previous action items during both client and internal calls. 

 It is crucial that the MOM document is consistently updated and maintained accurately. The responsibility for ensuring the document's completeness falls to the project manager. The audit team reserves the authority to review and, if necessary, issue Nonconformance (NC) notices should a project team fail to keep the MOM document updated as required. 

 Template : OSM-MOM-ExCEL-TEMPLATE-V1.0.xlsx 

 Intended audience 

 All team members involved in a project are required to be informed about this procedure and ensure its proper management. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to  Samuel Sandegren  or  Vishnu Kyatannawar . 

 Components 

 Osmo-X 

 About 

 Osmo-X is our in-house, open-source notification component designed to streamline the process of sending notifications through various channels. It eliminates the need for repetitive development work for similar notification features across projects. Currently, Osmo-X supports four channels: Email, WhatsApp, and two others detailed in our usage guide . 

 We encourage all team members to integrate Osmo-X into their projects for any notification requirements. Please give the repository a star to show your support and subscribe to releases to stay updated on the latest enhancements. 

 Repository : https://github.com/OsmosysSoftware/osmo-x 

 Intended audience 

 It's crucial for all developers to familiarize themselves with the Osmo-X component. By doing so, you'll be prepared to efficiently incorporate it into your projects as the need arises. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Vishnu Kyatannawar . 

 Document Service 

 About 

 DocumentService is an in-house library developed at Osmosys, designed to streamline document creation processes. It offers functionalities to: 

 

 Generate Word documents: Utilize Word document templates and replace placeholders with actual data. 

 Generate PDF documents: Use HTML templates for data substitution and convert them into PDF format. 

 

 We encourage developers to leverage DocumentService for any document generation needs within their projects. Please support us by starring the repository and subscribing to updates to stay informed about the latest improvements. 

 Repository : https://github.com/OsmosysSoftware/document-service 

 Intended audience 

 It's crucial for all developers to familiarize themselves with the document service component. By doing so, you'll be prepared to efficiently incorporate it into your projects as the need arises. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Sameer Shaik . 

 .NET Template 

 About 

 The Dotnet Foundation project serves as a comprehensive boilerplate for ASP.NET WebAPI projects, tailored for use in any .NET project at Osmosys. It includes a set of common files designed for reuse, with the primary goal of facilitating rapid development. Developers can easily copy this project and expand upon it, ensuring a swift start to their projects. 

 Features: 

 

 Implements modern dotnet features, including Clean Architecture and AspNetCore.Identity, for enhanced structure and security. 

 Detailed API Documentation is provided for guidance. 

 

 For an in-depth understanding of its capabilities, we encourage you to review the documents on Clean Architecture and AspNetCore.Identity. 

 Please support our efforts by starring the repository and subscribing to receive updates on the latest developments 

 Repository : https://github.com/OsmosysSoftware/dotnet-foundation 

 Intended audience 

 It's crucial for all developers to familiarize themselves with the .NET foundation. By doing so, you'll be prepared to efficiently incorporate it into your projects as the need arises. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Sameer Shaik . 

 Angular Template 

 About 

 The Angular Foundation project at Osmosys Software Solution is crafted as the base for all Angular projects within the company. Its aim is to gradually integrate all the essential features commonly needed in web applications, establishing a robust starting point for development. All angular projects at Osmosys should use this template. 

 This foundation includes: 

 

 Linting configuration aligned with Osmosys's Angular standards. 

 A CI setup for GitHub, with documentation available for adapting to GitLab as needed. 

 

 We encourage contributions to enhance and refine this foundation further. 

 Please consider starring the repository and subscribing for the latest updates to stay informed on progress and improvements. 

 Repository : https://github.com/OsmosysSoftware/angular-foundation 

 Intended audience 

 It's crucial for all developers to familiarize themselves with the Angular foundation. By doing so, you'll be prepared to efficiently incorporate it into your projects as the need arises. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Vikas Kyatannawar . 

 Processes 

 Employee Stuck 

 About 

 If you encounter difficulties with a task assigned by your team lead, please follow the process outlined below: 

 Intended audience 

 All developers engaged with any project must ensure they are well-informed about this process. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Vishnu Kyatannawar . 

 Mockoon 

 About 

 In frontend development, timely delivery of API development is crucial to prevent delays in project timelines. However, dependencies on API delivery can often hinder the frontend development process. To mitigate this, two strategies are often employed: 

 

 

 Pre-Development API Specification : Providing detailed API specifications to frontend teams before the actual development begins can help in planning and structuring frontend development accordingly. Although AI tools have been explored for automating this process, they often require human intervention for validation and testing, including handling various response scenarios. 

 

 

 Mock API Servers : Another effective approach is the use of mock API servers, like Mockoon. Mockoon is a free, open-source, cross-platform tool that allows developers to simulate API responses locally without the need for a live backend. It doesn't require user accounts or logins, making it accessible and easy to use. This method enables frontend developers to proceed with component development and integration without waiting for the actual APIs to be developed and deployed. 

 

 

 Using mock APIs provides a practical workaround for the interdependency challenges between frontend and backend development phases, ensuring smoother workflow and minimizing project delays. 

 Document : https://github.com/OsmosysSoftware/dev-standards/blob/main/process/mockoon-usage.md 

 Intended audience 

 We aim for all developers to understand and leverage Mockoon in our development workflows. Familiarity with Mockoon and its integration into our development processes is crucial for enhancing productivity and ensuring our projects progress seamlessly. 

 Owner 

 For any queries, doubts, or requests regarding this matter, please reach out to Vikas Kyatannawar .

PineStem Usage Guidelines
This document lists guidelines for the project managers and the users of PineStem in Osmosys .   

 Company Configuration 

 

 

 

 The following  task statuses  must be present in a company. Any intermediate task status is permissible as per the need. 

 

 Planned – This task status is set when a task is created and assigned to a resource. A task in Planned state indicates that the work is currently not happening or is planned to happen in the future. 

 Development – In a task related to software development, a task in “Development” indicates that work is happening actively. The task is assigned to the developer who is working on the task. 

 Testing – In a task related to software development, a task in “Testing” indicates that the work has been submitted to the QA division of the team. QA tests the task delivery for bugs and attaches them to the task.   

 The following task statuses must be present in a company. Any intermediate task status is permissible as per the need. 

 

 Done – A task that has completed development stage and the QA stage successfully has the “Done” task status.   

 Incomplete – A task that has been initially given for development but has not been completed will be in “Incomplete” task status.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 The following billing statuses must be present in a company. 

 

 Coding – Billing s on a task that involves active software development and writing of code must be under the Coding billing status.   

 Testing – Billings on a task that involves the QA check s on the work delivered. 

 Documentation - Billings on a task that involves generating new documents or editing existing documents to support the development work. 

 Support – Billing on a task that involves unblocking the main task assignee so that progress can be made in the task. This billing is generally done by a peer or a team lead. 

 Work Review – Billing on this billing status is done when a review is requested by the main task assignee. In a usual software development task, the solution documents and the code are reviewed. Sometimes, test cases by the developer and the QA is also reviewed.   

 Learning – Billing on this status is done when an employee spends time on the learning hours allocated per quarter for upskilling.   

 Miscellaneous – Billing on this status is done when an employee spends time on the miscellaneous tasks like attending meetings, all hands, team activities etc.   

 

 

 

 

 

 Billing Statu ses Budget Breakdown   

 When a budgeted hours is assigned to a task, the hours are broken down across the Billing hours as per the configuration. A recommended breakdown should be as the table below.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Billing Status   

 

 

 Budget %   

 

 

 Comment   

 

 

 

 

 Coding   

 

 

 70   

 

 

 Most of the budget is  towards development of the task. This includes solution designing, initial technical document, implementation, developer test cases and delivery to QA .   

 

 

 

 

 Testing   

 

 

 30   

 

 

 This budget is  allocated to spend time on preparation efforts by writing test cases, test automation, test documents maintenance, QA checks execution.     

 

 

 

 

 Support   

 

 

 0   

 

 

 No time is  allocated for support as it is indefinite. It is difficult to predict the amount of support that may be required by the task assignee.   

 

 

 

 

 Work Review   

 

 

 0   

 

 

 No time is  allocated for Work Review because the efficiency need not be calculated for efforts spent on Work review.   

 

 

 

 

 Documentation   

 

 

 0   

 

 

 Most of the documentation related to the development of the task is done in the Coding billing status only. Budget can be  allocated on a case-to-case basis. For e.g., a task is only for documentation.   

 

 

 

 

 Learning   

 

 

 0   

 

 

 Billing related to efforts spent on upskilling in the learning hours allotted in each quarter   

 

 

 

 

 Miscellaneous   

 

 

 0   

 

 

 Billing on miscellaneous activities.  E.g : Meetings, activities.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Project  Management   

 Task Statuses 

 The following task statuses must be present in the project . These are the mandatory task statuses. Additional task statuses that may be useful for the project shall be added. All these task statuses shall be intermediate.   

 

 

 

 

 Planned 

 

 

 Development 

 

 

 Testing 

 

 

 Done 

 

 

 Incomplete   

 

 

 

 

 Billing Statuses   

 The following billing statuses must be present in the project . The billing status budget breakdown p ercentage can be altered based on the nature of the project. In case there is any billing status that is not used, keep the budget breakdown percentage as 0%.   

 

 

 

 

 Coding - 70% 

 

 

 Testing - 30% 

 

 

 Documentation – 0% 

 

 

 Support - 0% 

 

 

 Work Review - 0% 

 

 

 Learning - 0% 

 

 

 Miscellaneous - 0% 

 

 

 

 

 Project Members 

 

 

 

 

 Projects members list should only contain those who are actively involved in the operations of the project. 

 

 

 A project manager will have full control over the project configuration. 

 

 

 A project team member will have READ ALL permissions to be able to see the tasks and bugs that everyone in the team is working on. 

 

 

 A project team member will have WRITE  NONE permission. A team member should not be allowed to create a task, bug or a user story by themselves . 

 

 

 A team member will  not be allowed to alter the billings they have done. T o do so, they will have to request the project manager by sending an email and get access only if the reason is valid. The permission to alter the billings should be revoked right after the alteration is done.   

 

 

 

 

 Sprints   

 

 

 

 

 Ideally, in a project only one sprint should be active along with the Backlog sprint. 

 

 

 The sprint’s start date and end date should be followed religiously. 

 

 

 A project manager can edit the sprint’s timeline only when they have strong reason. 

 

 

 The  sprint must have a budget. The project manager’s responsibility is to ensure that the efforts spent in a sprint do not cross the Sprint’s budgeted hours. 

 

 

 The Sprint’s budgeted hours must be altered only after the approval of the client.   

 

 

 

 

 Project Details   

 

 

 

 

 A project should have all the task statuses as mentioned in the Project Configuration section. 

 

 

 The “DONE” and “INCOMPLETE” task status must be a non-billable task status  i.e. billing should not be allowed in this task status. 

 

 

 The Billing Statuses and  its breakdown must adhere to the setup mentioned in the Project Configuration section.   

 

 

 

 

 Task Management   

 Tasks Creation 

 

 

 

 

 A task should not have a budget beyond 16 hours. 

 

 

 If a task needs more budget, break it down and group the tasks using a user story. 

 

 

 In a technical task, the task's budget must be broken down in between the following Billing statuses 

 

 

 Coding - 70% 

 

 

 Testing - 30% 

 

 

 Support - 0% 

 

 

 PR Review - 0% 

 

 

 

 

 A task that is not in a backlog must have the following parameters filled properly. 

 

 

 Task description 

 

 

 Task category 

 

 

 Competency 

 

 

 Complexity 

 

 

 Sprint (Active sprint) 

 

 

 Correct Assigned to team member 

 

 

 Correct budget and breakdown   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Task C ompletion   

 

 

 

 

 When a task is completed, the task must be moved to the "DONE" task status. 

 

 

 When a task has been declared as incomplete by the project manager, the task should be left in the "Incomplete" task status and assigned to the team member who worked on it. 

 

 

 A follow up task should be created for the “Incomplete” task and assigned to a member who can complete it.   

 

 

 

 

 Task Support vs Work Review Billing Status   

 

 

 

 

 A task assignee may receive support from their peer/team lead to complete a task. A task supporter can bill their efforts in the same task under the “Support” billing status. Note that the “Support” billing status should be used to bill if the task assignee is absolutely stuck and cannot proceed further with the task. 

 

 

 The efficiency of a task supporter will not be calculated . T he budgeted hours breakdown by Billing Status has 0% allocation for “Support” billing status. 

 

 

 A task may require a review of the work from a peer/lead. In this case, the peer/lead should bill the efforts  required to review the work (Code/Document) under the “ Work Review” billing status. Note that any general review is performed only after the work is done and submitted for review. 

 

 

 The efficiency of the  person who bills on “Work Review” will not be calculated. The budgeted hours breakdown by Billing Status has 0% allocation for “Work Review” billing status.   

 

 

 

 

 Miscellaneous Tasks   

 

 

 

 

 A task of the following types come under “Miscellaneous” tasks 

 

 

 Daily scrum calls 

 

 

 Impromptu meetings 

 

 

 Product deployments 

 

 

 Project management 

 

 

 

 

 A miscellaneous task should generally be assigned to the project manager. 

 

 

 A miscellaneous task should have a budget which considers billings of all the participants. For e.g. , a meeting for an hour for 5 participants should have a budget of 5 hours. 

 

 

 The billing status breakdown is not applicable  to miscellaneous tasks . 

 

 

 All efforts spent on a miscellaneous task should be under “Miscellaneous” billing status .   

 

 

 

 

 Learning Tasks   

 

 

 

 

 The tasks assigned to the employee to upskill in a quarter are known as learning tasks. 

 

 

 An employee must bill the task in the “Learning” billing status. 

 

 

 Each person must have their own learning tasks. Learning tasks should not be shared for billing.   

 

 

 

 

 Bug Management   

 

 

 

 

 A bug found in the work submitted should be raised in the relevant task only. 

 

 

 The bug description should follow a template decided by the project manager. 

 

 

 All mandatory inputs should be filled while creating a bug. 

 

 

 A bug must be assigned to the Task Assignee only. 

 

 

 A bug should  not be moved to another task. 

 

 

 Production bug found in a Done Task : For a bug that is found in production , there are two cases: 

 

 

 Bug assigned to the same person who developed the feature: A new task should be created addressing the bug and a bug should be created in the new task. 

 

 

 Bug assigned to a different person:  A new task should be created addressing the bug. A bug should be created in the original task and should be “CLOSED ”.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Bug S tatuses   

 The following bug statuses should be active in a company.   

 

 

 

 

 Open – A bug is said to be in Open status when it is raised by the QA and the development team accepts it as a bug to fix. 

 

 

 On hold   – A bug is moved to On hold status when the development team acknowledges the bug raised by the QA but has declared it as a low priority issue. 

 

 

 Fixed – A bug is moved to Fixed status when the development team has spent efforts on fixing the bug and it is fixed. 

 

 

 Closed – A bug in Fixed status is moved to Closed status when the QA verifies the fix. 

 

 

 Not a bug – A bug is moved to Not a bug status if the bug raised by the QA is not accepted as a bug by the development team. This bug status can be set only after an approval from the Team lead or QA lead.  